List of database patches and upgrades as the PediaWiki software evolves...

* 2002-11-23: Search index format changed for UTF-8 wikis
For wikis using the UTF-8 languages, the search index entries
need to be rebuild to allow searching to work. (Other wikis
that have been run through the old phase2->phase3 conversion
script should also be reindexed to catch apostrophe misplacement.)

Run rebuildIndex.php on your wiki.



* 2002-11-27: Watchlist format changed
Converts the user_watchlist entries out to a separate table which
links user_id<->cur_id and can be more handily queried.

Run upgradeWatchlist.php on your wiki.



* 2002-12-14: Recentchanges table bot/hidden column
Adds a column to indicate changes by registered bots (or perhaps
later other admin actions) that should be hidden from the default
Recentchanges list because people think they're tedious, but should
still be available in article histories, contribs lists, and
power-user RC lists.

Run bot.sql against your database.



* 2002-12-17: Watchlist format changed again
Now using namespace, title instead of cur_id. This can track deleted/
recreated pages better, makes it easier to handle talk pages (now with
the auto-watch feature there's a lot more watching of talk pages!)
and whatnot.

Run patch-watchlist.sql against your database. If all is well, drop
the oldwatchlist table which is no longer needed. (Note that this update
also drops the vestigial user_watchlist column.)



* 2002-12-26: TeX math rendering adds 'math' table
A new 'math' table is used to cache TeX sections.

Run patch-math.sql against your database, and add 'tmp' and 'math'
subdirectories to your tree alongside the upload directory, and copy
the 'math' source subdirectory under the wiki's PHP directory and run
"make" to compile the texvc evaluator. (whew!)

TeX support requires TeX, OCaml, and ImageMagick. If you don't want
to use TeX support on your wiki, you can globally disable it by
setting $wgUseTeX=false in LocalSettings.php.



* 2003-01-25: searchindex table
A new 'searchindex' table separates the fulltext index fields from
'cur'. This enables use of InnoDB tables, which don't support fulltext
search, for the main data, and will keep junk out of the backup dumps.

Run patch-searchindex.sql on the database. If you wish to change table
tables on the others, use 'alter table' manually. (See MySQL docs.)


* 2003-01-24: Talk pages for anonymous users
A new table user_newtalk contains a list of talk pages that were
changed, both pages by anonymous and those by non-anonymous users.

Run patch-usernewtalk.sql if your database was created before
this date.


* 2003-02-02: Math table changed
Rerun patch-math.sql to recreate it.

* 2003-02-03: Index added to USER table for performance reasons. Run
patch-userindex.sql to create it.


* 2003-02-09: Random table & inverse timestamps
The random page queue table has been removed in favor of a column
in the cur table. This eliminates the ssllooww queue refill step;
pre-storing random indices in an indexed column means we can do the
random sort instantly; each element is re-randomized upon selection.

Also, an inverse_timestamp field has been added to the cur and old
tables. This will allow fast index-based sorting in history lists,
user contribs, linked recentchanges, etc with MySQL 3, which doesn't
allow DESC ordering on an indexed field. This may be removed later
when MySQL is found to be stable.


* 2003-03-22: Last touched fields for caching
'Last touched' timestamp fields have been added to the cur and user
tables to aid in maintaining cache consistency. Web clients will
be forced to reload a page if it has been touched since the client's
cached copy (this will catch indirect changes like creation of
linked pages) or if a user changes preferences or logs in anew (so
visual changes and login status are taken into account).

Run patch-cache.sql on the database to set these fields up. This is
required for changes to OutputPage.php and elsewhere to continue
working on an older database.


* 2003-05-23: Index for "Oldest articles"
"Oldest articles" needs an index on namespace, redirect and timestamp
to be reasonably fast. (patch-oldestindex.sql)

OutputPage.php User.php maintenance/buildTables.inc maintenance/patch-cache.sql maintenance/patch-list.txt

* 2003-09: Ipblocks auto-expiry update
patch-ipblocks.sql

* Interwiki URL table
Moves the interwiki prefix<->url mapping table from a static array
into the database. If you've got a custom table, be sure to make
your changes!
 
Run patch-interwiki.sql to create the interwiki table, then the
plain interwiki.sql to load up the default set of mappings.

* 2003-05-30: File upload license fields
Adds fields to 'image' table.
INCOMPLETE, DO NOT USE


* 2003-08-21: Interwiki URL table
Moves the interwiki prefix<->url mapping table from a static array
into the database. If you've got a custom table, be sure to make
your changes!

Run patch-interwiki.sql to create the interwiki table, then the
plain interwiki.sql to load up the default set of mappings.

* 2003-09: Ipblocks auto-expiry update
patch-ipblocks.sql

* Interwiki URL table
Moves the interwiki prefix<->url mapping table from a static array
into the database. If you've got a custom table, be sure to make
your changes!
 
Run patch-interwiki.sql to create the interwiki table, then the
plain interwiki.sql to load up the default set of mappings.

* 2003-11: Indexes
Fixes up indexes on links, brokenlinks, recentchanges, watchlist,
and archive tables to boost speed.

Run patch-indexes.sql.

* 2003-11: linkscc table creation
patch-linkscc.sql


* 2004-01-25: recentchanges additional index
Adds an index to recentchanges to optimize Special:Newpages
patch-rc-newindex.sql

* 2004-02-14: Adds the ipb_expiry field to ipblocks
patch-ipb_expiry.sql

* 2004-03-10: Slight change to linkscc table (link data corruption bug)
Run this again to clear out and redeclare the linkscc table.
You may also want to rebuild your links...
patch-linkscc.sql

